# Comp-302-2202796 & Comp-303-2202796
# Data used
Two data sets are included in the Data folder of the root directory, Test 12 and Test 13. Test 13 is the set used and analysed for the Dissertation. Test 12 is an incomplete data set as its non-summary marked csv files are duplicates.
Within the Test 13 folder is also a .R file that contains the R code used to analyse the data  in R Studiop and also a .py file for view plots of the data set as well as some figures generated by pandas & seaborn using python 3.9
The full R data analysis can be found in Data Analysis.txt

## Unused exedcution time data
The Files that start with EXE contain the exeuction times. These were not anaylsed as performance ended up being out of the scope of the paper, but are provided anyway as it was data collected.
For Test 12 the hardware used to run the tests was
- Nvidia RTX 2070 Super 8GB GDDR6
- AMD Ryzen 7 5800X3D Caches L1: 512KB, L2: 4.0MB L3: 96MB
- 32GB of Ram (DDR4 3600MHz)
For Test 13 the hardware used to run the tests was
- AMD RX 7700S 8GB GDDR6 (Laptop GPU)
- AMD Ryzen 7 7840HS Caches L1: 512KB, L2: 8.0MB, L3 16MB (Laptop CPU)
- 32GB of RAM (DDR5 5600MHz)
In general the Compute shader ran faster on the AMD laptop GPU than the nvidia one and the mesh simplificaiton algorithim ran faster on the Desktop ryzen processor than the laptop one.
If you wanted to compare running mesh simplification to only the terrain generator and seeing if mesh simplification is worth the increased exeuction time overhead, its not.
Not only do you have to run the terrain generator at a high resolution, you then have to run an extremely slow algorithm ontop of it. Unit of time per Mean Devation is heavily in favour of the terrain generator.
For mesh simplification to be competative, it would need to leverage multiple CPU cores or ported to run on the GPU to avoid the costly copy back of mesh data.

## Consistency value for the submitted dissertation.
Because data collection had to be re-ran this presented an opportunity to see how consistent the data outputed is. The summary data is the only directly comperable data to Test-13, but it shows identical results despite being ran on different hardware.

# Computing Artefact
## VECS Planets and COMP305 Disclosure
The computing artefact use my comp305 project as a base. Since 305' Submission that project has been split into two assemblies, VECS and Planets. VECS is the underling C# Vulkan ECS graphics engine.
Planets generates convex planetary terrain meshes based off a number of settings and a seed.
[Link to the repo for VECS used in COMP302/303 Submission]([https://github.com/Larabee0/VECS.git](https://github.com/Larabee0/VECS/tree/3a6b91557eec5128a81ed6ab6ed7bab1c73d66e3))
[Link to original COMP305 Repo](https://github.falmouth.ac.uk/GA-Undergrad-Student-Work-24-25/COMP305-2202796.git)

VECS has undergone major development since COMP305. This project uses the version of VECS at the commit version linked above.
VECS is owned by and wholly written by the author of the paper William Vickers Hastings. It is stored on the internal University GitHub enterprise server as COMP305-2202796 and on the author's private GitHub account as VECS.

In addition to unrelated updates to VECS and Planets, they have had specific modifications in order to better support what I am doing in COMP302/303. 
The main area of note being the rewrite of to the subdivision algorithm, which can be found in (VECS/DataStructures/MeshExtensions.cs)
Other modifications include exposing parts of the scripting API like the generation of planets, loading of the base shape.
## COMP302 Assembly
For dissertation specific code the author has created a new Assembly (project) called COMP302, found in [Comp302-2202796/COMP302](https://github.falmouth.ac.uk/GA-Undergrad-Student-Work-24-25/Comp-302-2202796/tree/main/COMP302)
Within this assembly contains the source code written for:
- Geometric Deviation Calculation
- Quadric Mesh Simplification
- Running the experiment
- Exporting the results

# Instructions to run
- Download and install the [Vulkan SDK 1.4.304.1](https://sdk.lunarg.com/sdk/download/1.4.304.1/windows/VulkanSDK-1.4.304.1-Installer.exe)
- Download and install [.NET 9.0 Runtime](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/9.0)
- Ensure Graphics drivers are up to date (Tested on Nvidia Game Ready 572.83 & AMD Adrenaline Edition 25.3.1) [RTX 2070 Super & RX 7700S]
- Open the Visual Studio Solution VECS.sln in the root directory, change the active project to COMP302
- Build and run. Set the compiler to release mode for better performance.
- Test results can be found in the executing assemblies bin (COMP302/bin/Release[or Debug]/Results)
